01 Welcome To The Course!:
---------------------------

Hi, and welcome to this course about React.js,
the most popular JavaScript library
you can learn these days.
I'm super happy to welcome you on board.
My name is Maximilian Schwarzmuller
and I will be your instructor in this course.
Now in this first course section here,
I'm going to walk you through the most important questions.
What is React?
Why do we use it?
And I'll also explain what's inside this course,
how you can take this course,
which content you find in here.
Therefore, my recommendation is that you carefully
go through all those lectures
so that you will get a great overview of both
React and this course.
And then thereafter, in this course,
you're really going to learn all about React
in great detail, step-by-step.
You don't need any prior React knowledge.
You just need basic JavaScript knowledge,
and I also got a refresher on that,
so that we're all on the same page,
and therefore I'd say let's not waste any time.
Instead, let's dive into the most important question first.
What exactly is React
and why might it be a good idea to learn it?

02 What is React.js:
---------------------
[Maximilian Schwarzmüller] So what is React
or React.js as it's actually called?
And why would we use it?
Well, to answer that first question, what it is,
we can of course visit reactjs.org,
the official React.js webpage.
And there we learn that React is a JavaScript library
for building user interfaces.
That's a nice sentence.
But what exactly does that mean?
Consider an example like Netflix Service,
Netflix website and application.
This application is highly interactive
and runs pretty smoothly when we work with it.
It's easy to use
and we don't have to wait for anything to load,
we have nice transitions.
If we go to the My List page
that transition happens pretty much instantly.
We don't seem to wait for a new page to load here,
and that's all pretty nice.
And here I'm using Netflix in my browser.
So this is a website here.
Now, when we use a service like Netflix,
it might almost feel a bit like a mobile app,
even though I am using the website here.
Because mobile apps give us this
great highly reactive user experience.
From mobile apps where use that we have smooth transition
that it's fun to use that app
and that things happen instantly.
And at least traditionally,
websites didn't always feel like this.
Traditionally in websites, when we, for example,
clicked a link or a button,
our request was sent to a server
and a new HTML page was sent back to the browser
where it then could be displayed.
And therefore, traditionally, websites could feel
a bit clunky,
we might have that latency where we wait
for this new HTML page to load and so on.
And it's this request and response cycle,
which we can break up with JavaScript.
So at this point we don't even need React,
it's just a JavaScript which can help us here.
Because JavaScript is a programming language
that allows us as a developer to run logic in the browser.
And the great thing about that logic in the browser
is that it can do things that manipulate what the user sees.
JavaScript in the browser is able to manipulate
to so-called Dom, the HTML elements
that are rendered onto the screen.
We can manipulate this with JavaScript.
And that allows us to change what the users sees
without fetching a new HTML page.
We don't need to request a new HTML page
just to present something different to the user.
So that's why JavaScript can help us.
And since React is a JavaScript library,
it looks like it can also help us with that.
It might be an extra building block,
and indeed, React.js is a client-side JavaScript library.
It helps us with writing that client-side JavaScript code
and it's all about building modern reactive user interfaces
for websites.
And in this course, you're going to learn
about all the different features and tools React.js has
and gives you that make building complex
user interfaces easy.
But one question remains, why do we need React?
Because at this point we know that JavaScript is helpful,
and I hope I could explain why it is.
But how can React specifically help us,
why might we want React in addition to JavaScript?
For this, I built a simple,
a very simple demo here.
A simple website which has some interactivity,
as you will see in the next lecture.
And in the next lecture, I will show you
how we can build this website
and the interactivity it has with just JavaScript,
and how to code what's then look like with React
in addition to JavaScript.
And that will then make it clear
why using React could be a good idea.

03:
---

04 Building Single-Page Applications (SPAs) with React:
--------------------------------------------------------

Now because things get easier with React,
and because we can build those
rich user interfaces with React and JavaScript,
when working with React we often build
so-called Single Page Applications.
Because whilst we can use React
to control parts of an HTML page,
let's say some interactive sidebar,
and therefore we add a widget, you could say
to a page where only a part of
the page is controlled with React.
It is more common to control
the entire page with React.
Which means that we use React
for everything we see on the screen
and even for switching pages.
So when we click on a link
and we load a new page
as I did with Netflix when I clicked on my list
it looks to the user as if we switched a page
but we actually don't request
a new HTML file from some server.
Instead we just used JavaScript through React.js
to change what's visible on the screen.
And that often leads to a smoother UI
and a better user experience.
As you see it at the example of Netflix.
It's built with React
and there we never request a second HTML page.
Hence it's a Single Page Application
where after the initial request
to decide React takes over
and controls what we see on the screen.

05 Exploring React.js Alternatives (Angular, Vue):
---------------------------------------------------

Now, this course
is about React, but it is worth noting
that there are alternatives to React.js.
Now we're going to focus on React here and React is one
of the most popular front-end frameworks
or libraries, however, you want to call it you can learn.
It's a lean and focused component-based UI library.
It really focuses on this component thing,
and it doesn't have a lot of other features built in.
If you need our features like routing which we are,
of course, going to learn about in detail in this course
then you need to install a extra third-party library.
And that will sometimes be the case when working with React,
that you need to install third-party libraries
to add certain pieces of functionality to your application
because React itself really just focuses
on these components, which we're going
to learn about in greater detail later,
what exactly they are and how we create them,
and how it then renders these components,
and your user interface onto the screen.
That's the focus of React and extra functionality
which you might need for your React app,
therefore, sometimes has to be added
with help of some third-party package.
Now, an alternative to React, which has
more built in features would be Angular
another very important,
and very popular front-end framework.
And I got a course on this as well.
Angular is a complete component-based UI framework.
So, it also focuses on components just like React,
but it ships more built in features than React.
It also embraces TypeScript right from the start.
And it can be overkill for smaller projects,
therefore, since it has way more features built in.
But for a large project, on the other hand,
you don't need to rely on the community as much
because there's more built into that framework.
So, that's simply a little consideration you have to make.
The syntax also looks a bit differently
because, whilst it is component focused,
building these components works a bit differently
with Angular than it does with React.
Again, I got a course on that,
if you want to check out Angular as well.
And we also have another very popular framework,
another popular alternative and that would be Vue.js.
Vue.js is kind of like the mixture of Angular and React,
in between those two extremes,
if you want to call it like this.
It's also a complete component-based UI framework.
And it also includes a lot of features,
but a bit less features than Angular, but more than React.
It includes core features like routing, for example,
and therefore with Vue, you also have
to rely less on the community and still you don't have
as much overload possibly as you might have with Angular,
depending on what you build.
I also got a more detailed comparison video
on these three technologies,
in case you're interested in that.
Now, all three are super popular.
React currently is probably the most popular,
but all three are great, I got courses
on all three and therefore checking
those out might be a good idea as well.
But this course, of course, is about React
and therefore let's not lose any time, let's dive right in.

06 About This Course & Course Outline:
---------------------------------------

Now as part of this first course section
I also wanna give you an overview
of what you can expect from this course
and which topics will be covered.
Now, of course,
you maybe already had a look at the course curriculum
and you absolutely should take a brief look at least
because this is a huge course
and I can't pack all the contents that's in the course
into this one lecture here,
I don't wanna turn this into a 20 minute lecture
and in addition,
I kept this course updated in the past
and i kept adding new content from time to time,
and i do plan to do that in the future.
So the, curriculum you see on the course page
is always up to date.
The content here in this video is just a summary
of the most important features.
There's way more in the course,
so definitely check out that full curriculum in addition.
Now, with that out of the way,
this course is organized into three main categories
or course sections you could say.
And the first category of sections,
is about the basics,
the foundation of React.
These will be sections
that cover core features
which React offers to you,
which you have to know no matter
which React App you're building.
Now, the second category of course sections,
then is about more advanced concepts.
So this course does not stop after the basics.
Instead, we are going to dive
into a lot of advanced concepts as well.
These are the concepts which you need for real apps
which you really wanna push to production I would say.
These are concepts which you don't need in every app
but realistically you will need them in a lot of apps
and that's why we're also going to dive
into such advanced concepts in depth
in this course.
Now the last kind of course, sections and content
which you'll find in this course
will be sections that contain the summaries
or refreshers on certain concepts
ensuring that we're all on the same page
and that you got a single place to go to,
well, summarize the core concepts you learned about.
But let's now take a closer look at
which kind of content you can expect in detail
for these different categories of content.
We will, of course start with the key basics
that you have to know.
And when you'll learn, React,
those core basics will be about components,
you will learn that react is all about components
and how you can build your own components
and how you can combine them
and how you can build user interfaces
with this component approach React takes.
You will also learn how to work with events
and data, so how you can listen to button clicks
and then change something on the screen,
and you will learn about props and state,
which probably doesn't tell you anything right now
but which are key React concepts
which I am going to introduce in great detail
in this course.
Now, since this course is about
building user interfaces in the end
of course you're also going to learn,
how you can style your react apps and components,
how you can make sure that your user interfaces,
which you build with React look the way
you want them to look.
And I'm also going to introduce you to
another key feature called React Hooks.
You will learn what exactly that is,
and you will learn that it is one of
the most important concepts of modern React
and therefore, of course it's also covered
in great detail In this course.
Now, these four boxes on this slide here
are not four course sections.
These concepts, which are listed here
in this basics category
are indeed taught through a lot more course sections.
This is just a summary of the content you can expect.
And if you simply continue with the next lectures
and sections, you are going to learn
these key concepts step by step.
Because of course I ordered all the course content
and all the course lectures,
such that you are learning
about all those important React features step-by-step
so that everything builds up on each other.
Now, as I mentioned, we don't stop after those basics.
Instead we'll directly move from basics to more
advanced concepts.
And therefore, this course also
contains sections about working with side effects
and Refs and what Refs are
and more React hooks.
And if this all sounds very cryptic right now
that's no problem
This is just an overview,
Some terms you might've heard about before,
which are also covered by this course,
you will learn what these concepts are about
and how they work throughout this course of course.
Now we are also going to explore app wide state management
with Reacts context API and Redux.
React Redux is a third party library,
one of the most important React, third party libraries
and we're going to cover it in detail in multiple sections
in this course.
And you are also going to learn how you can handle
user input with forms,
how you can send HTTP requests
behind the scenes to store data
in a database or fetch data from there,
And you're going to learn how to build your own custom Hooks
and what that actually is.
You're also going to learn how to implement routing
and what routing is in detail,
how you can build a page that gives the user the illusion
of having multiple pages, even though
it's a single page app as you learned.
you're going to learn how to deploy your React App,
and we're for example, also going to dive
into another framework called Next.js
which builds up on React.js,
which will make building production-ready
React Apps even easier.
And that will be another a huge module on Next.js
which is also included in this course
a little bit later in this course
since that will already be quite advanced then.
And there is more,
as i said, this is not exhaustive,
have a look at their full course curriculum
to see all the content
this is just the general structure of this course
and what you can expect from it.
Now, as I mentioned, there also are some summary
and refresher course sections,
and specifically there is
a JavaScript refresher course section,
that's the next course section after this one actually
which is 100% optional
but which you can take to ensure that we're all
on the same page regarding JavaScript,
because in that refresher section I'm going to
refresh some core modern JavaScript features
which we're going to use in this course as well.
And there will also be a React.js summary module
at the end of this course
about which I'll talk in greater detail
in the next course lecture,
because it turns out that for this course,
you actually have more than one possible way
of taking this course.
But again, I'll dive a bit deeper
into that in the next lecture.
Now, all that content in this course
will be explained in great detail
in theory, and web small demos and examples
but then we are also going to have a couple of bigger
more realistic course projects and examples
where you can practice what you learned
and where you see the different concepts come together
and where you see how a React app is built
by using all those React features.
Last but not least,
there also are plenty of challenges and exercises for you,
so that by the end of the course
you can really call yourself a React developer.

